Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
drama, sci-fi film called “Predestination.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
An agent in a coat and hat is walking in a
hallway. He carries with him two briefcases
as he heads over to a staircase leading under
the building. There he finds a hidden time bomb,
to which he immediately opens his
briefcase that turns out to be a gadget.
The agent carefully disarms the bomb but
is interrupted by the presence of another
person in the area. The agent pulls his
gun and looks for the enemy. Suddenly,
the enemy takes him by surprise and lands a
shot at the agent. The agent retaliates, but the
time bomb is about to explode, so he immediately
drops his guard and puts the bomb in the gadget.
But just before he could conceal it, the
bomb explodes, burning the man's face and
knocking him back. The burned agent screams in
agony and tries to reach for his other case.
The other person finally shows himself to
the burning man but, instead, he helps him
reach the other case. The two briefly stare at
each other before the other person walks away.
The burning man then desperately inputs
something in the case and enters it.
After the event, the agent finds himself covered
with bandages, recovering on a hospital bed.
His superiors meet him and commend him for
his efforts. They tell him that he should
forget about his failed mission and focus on
resting and preparing for his last mission.
It turns out the person he was trying
to catch is a very elusive criminal,
known as the fizzle bomber. The fizzle bomber has
had many small attacks, but those were nothing
compared to the bomber's grand plan: a massive
scale attack in New York somewhere in 1975,
killing many people. Despite being
told to move on his failed mission,
the agent is more determined to stop
the fizzle bomber one more time.
After a couple of rest, the doctor finally removes
the agent's bandages, telling him that he will
recover sufficiently for his next mission.
The doctor further instructs the agent that
his recovered face and vocal cords will change
drastically due to the injuries he suffered.
The agent takes a look at the mirror
to see his scarred but different face.
The agent acknowledges and accepts his changes.
Seven years of rest later, the man's face
has finally fully healed. He takes his voice
recorder and starts recording his experiences. He
explains that he is finally about to deploy for
his next and final mission. He further explains
the importance of his mission and how it will get
them closer to their final destination. While
the agent prepares, his superiors give him
his weapons and remind him of the rules. They
tell him that if he diverts from his mission,
it will result in death by lethal injection.
The agent agrees to all this, and they give
him the case from earlier. After everything is
set and done, he departs for his final mission.
In a city bar in the middle of the night,
the agent works undercover as a bartender,
seemingly waiting for someone to arrive. A
person in a coat and hat then walks into the
bar and immediately orders a drink. The
bartender serves the person while subtly
trying to make conversation. They talk about the
fizzle bomber for a short while but immediately
escalates into a different conversation.
The person reveals himself as a writer,
the unmarried mother, and writes confession
stories for a living. The bartending man
knows about the content he writes and shows
him one of the magazines he's been reading.
The writer is surprised that a bartending man
reads his content because he doesn't fit the
demographic. The writer further tells him that
the things he writes are not worth the read.
The bartender tells him that he sometimes looks
to his magazines when he needs insights into a
woman's perspective and is curious how a man
would know a woman's perspective. The writer
tells the bartender that he was once a girl, which
leaves the bartender surprised. But before the
bartender could ask more about the matter, t
he writer starts telling his life story.
It all started on September 13, 1945. He
was a newborn without parents taken and left
at an orphanage doorstep. The orphanage
took her in and gave her the name Jane.
As a kid, Jane was curious about outer space and
grew to love it. Jane envied kids who had parents,
wondering how and what it feels. Jane never
understood why her parents abandoned her or what
she did wrong to deserve such deprivation. But
as Jane got older, she felt something different
about her. Jane was more self-aware than any other
girls in the orphanage and more curious than them.
Jane solemnly vowed that her children would have
a real family, unlike her. So she focused on
other things like learning how to fight. Jane
was stronger than any of the other kids, even
the boys. She was also the smartest in the class.
She loved mathematics and science, and everything
was easy for her. But all of the kids did not
like her, and they thought of her as weird.
Later on, Jane grew to hate herself, realizing
that her being different made her very unlikely
to be adopted. Jane accepted that no one would
take her as their daughter or even as their wife.
Years later, Jane was finally about to
graduate when she met Mr. Robertson.
Robertson was looking for young women like Jane
for a job in government service on an organization
called Space Corp, possibly revolving around
space travel. Robertson elaborated that they
sought out ladies that show great potential in the
fields of Mathematics and Science and had strong
physical abilities. Jane accepted the invitation
and applied for the company. During the interview,
Jane expressed herself in front of the panel.
Upon being questioned by the panel about how
she saw her role in the journey, she
told them her determination. She was
serious about what the organization
wants from her, so she got accepted.
Space Corp held special training sessions for the
volunteers to test if they were capable of space
travel. They gave Jane and the volunteers
an advanced visual simulation of space.
Jane felt alive and was brimming with
excitement at the sight of space travel,
but some of the volunteers couldn't take it.
Space Corp gave them endurance and written tests,
which many of the volunteers struggled with,
but Jane quickly passed with flying colors.
Space Corp also held interviews with a heartbeat
sensing machine to tell if the interviewee was
lying or not. There they find out that
Jane thought about love a lot. Jane also
expressed that something feels wrong with her
and that the other volunteers don't like her.
Shortly after, Jane got herself into a fight with
one of the volunteers, but she beats the girl by
constant parries and multiple strong punches
directly to the face, knocking her down. They
were immediately stopped by the staff and taken
to the clinic. Outside, a doctor hands a report
to Robertson about something particular in Jane's
body. The doctor then told Robertson that it would
disqualify her, but Robertson told the doctor
not to tell Jane and that he'll take care of it.
Jane got disqualified, but they didn't
tell her why. While packing her things,
Robertson approached her, and Jane expressed
to him that she was merely defending herself.
Robertson reassures Jane that he will do
everything to get her back in the program.
Despite Robertson's promise, Jane couldn't rely
on him, so she had to find other ways to make a
living. Jane worked as a house helper in the
day for a cheap family by doing their chores.
It was there that Jane discovered confession
story magazines and began to love reading
them for her past time. At night, Jane
went to school to work on her etiquette,
but she had a hard time learning. That was when
Jane met the man who was going to change her life.
One rainy night, Jane accidentally bumped into a
man and apologized. Jane then asked if the man was
lost, to which the man replied that he was waiting
for someone. Jane replied with the quote, "good
things happen to those who wait." The man replied
with the rest of the quote, saying, "but only the
things left behind by those who hustle." Jane was
amazed that they were thinking the same thing.
Jane further describes the man to the bartender,
how the man was handsome and rich enough to take
care of her. Jane was in love with how the man
treated her, and the bartender replies mockingly,
seemingly knowing how it ends. Jane asks the
bartender if he had ever done something stupid
for love, to which the bartender replies
that he did, once, and he understands how
Jane felt. Jane continues her story, telling
the bartender that being with that man was the
happiest time of her life. But it only lasted
there. The man told Jane to wait at the bench.
The man promised Jane that he'd be
back. But the man never returned.
Jane tells the bartender that she acknowledges
the relationship as nothing more than a fling.
So she was able to move on quickly and
continued hoping to go back to Space Corp.
Then one day, Robertson visited Jane. Robertson
told Jane the truth that the organization he
was working for was not for space travel.
It was a confidential government agency
that "reshapes wrongdoings" and only used
Space Corp to find extraordinary people.
People who had exceptional abilities, people who
had no families, no past and ties to the future,
people like Jane. Jane tells the bartender
that she didn't understand what the job meant,
but she knew it would change
her life for the better.
Until she realized she was pregnant and Robertson
never appeared to her again. It turns out that
the mysterious man left Jane with more than just a
broken heart, and she thought her future was over.
Jane went to a charity ward with other
pregnant women, though she felt alone.
One night, Jane found herself in agony on
an operating table with nurses and doctors,
ready to finally let the baby out. In the
morning after the operation, Jane woke up,
and a doctor came to check in on her. The doctor
happily informs the excited Jane that the cesarean
was successful and the baby was a healthy little
girl. But then everything took a turn when the
doctor started to ask Jane if any doctors
ever told her about the state of her body.
Confused, Jane told him that the doctors never
told her anything and that everything was fine.
The doctor then explains to Jane that she
had two reproductive organs, female and male,
inside of her. Despite being underdeveloped, the
female set was good enough to develop a baby.
Then the doctor tells her that due to excessive
bleeding from birth, they were forced to perform
a hysterectomy on her, removing her female
reproductive organs. However, they were able
to reconstruct her successfully, and she was
able to develop her male reproductive parts,
though she will have to take more surgeries.
Jane was shocked by the news, gets teary,
and unable to accept what happened. The doctor
continues to reassure her that she will be fine.
Jane continues to care for her baby daughter,
telling her that she was the best thing that
ever happened to her. When asked by a nurse
about the baby's name, Jane wanted to name
her baby after herself. Jane was now very
determined to raise the baby properly.
However, the baby was kidnapped, taken away
from the hospital nursery by an older man. Jane
desperately tried everything, but she never found
her baby, and they never found the kidnapper.
Then there was her other problem. Jane had
to undergo three major operations and spend
eleven months in the hospital to reshape her
into a man. Everything made her feel broken,
as she was losing herself in the
process. Eleven months later,
Jane looked in the mirror and saw
her new self, finally accepting that
the girl he once was, is truly gone.
Jane tells the bartender that every
time he looked at the mirror, it reminded
him of the person that ruined his life.
Jane desperately tries to re-enlist on
Space Corp once more but to no success.
They knew about his story and marked him
unfit for space travel, nailing the coffin
to her desired future. So Jane changed his name
and moved to New York to get on with his life.
He started trying to make a living,
eventually leading to his current
career of being "the unmarried mother,"
writing confession stories for a living.
Jane concludes the story with that. Strangely
enough, the bartender then asks Jane a question:
that if she had the opportunity to kill the man,
would she do it. Jane answered that she would,
in a heartbeat. So the bartender starts telling
Jane that he knows the person and he can make
him do it. Jane doesn't trust him, so the
bartender uncovers Jane's current name that
she did not even mention, which is John.
John is still reluctant, so the bartender
reassures him that he works for Robertson,
which finally prompts John to follow him.
The agent takes him down the cellar and shows
him his field kit, telling him that it is a
time machine, and they will both travel
back in time. John is still suspicious
of the bartender until the agent stands
close to him and tells him to stay still,
hold the case, and close her eyes, and
the two of them disappear from the cellar.
John and the agent travel to Cleveland, Ohio,
in 1963. John is distorted from the travel but
slowly recovers. The agent gives John some cash
and clothes for the mission while briefing him
of where the man is. John is still perplexed,
but the agent tells him that the man who ruined
his life might be the fizzle bomber. The agent
then reassures him that if he kills the man,
he can finally get the job. The agent
then leaves John to do his mission.
That rainy night, the disguised John makes his way
on the fateful hallway where the man was supposed
to meet his past self. Suddenly, he bumps into
a girl and looks away from her. The girl asks
if she was lost, to which John replies that he
was waiting for someone. The girl then tells him
the quote, "good things happen to those who wait."
John finally pieces the puzzle together, realizing
he was the man all along and replied with the
rest of the quote. John turns around to meet
Jane and is astounded at the sight of her. John
wholeheartedly compliments Jane telling her that
she’s beautiful and someone should’ve told her
that. Jane replies with a smile that he just did.
All while this is happening, the agent watches
them from a distance and shortly leaves. The agent
deviates back to his failed mission. But this
time, he spots the fizzle bomber who just finished
setting up the bomb. The bomber notices the agent
and dodges his first shot. The two get in a short
gunfight, but the bomber makes a run for it. The
agent chases him but finds himself in a dark part
of the basement. The agent slowly searches for the
bomber, but the bomber flanks him, and the two get
in a short fistfight. The bomber beats him with
a solid punch to the face and knocks him down.
Shortly after, the agent hears familiar gunshots,
prompting him to get back on his feet and head
over to the bomb. There he sees his past self the
moment he burned his face. The agent approaches
the agonizing former him and helps him reach his
field kit, and the two gaze at each other briefly.
The former agent time travels away from the
scene. The agent realizes the inevitability
of his failure. He then picks up a part of the
bomb, takes it with him, and time travels away.
The agent jumps to 1964 and takes out his anger.
He cleans, recollects, and reminds himself of
the next part of his mission while recording
everything. Back in 1963, John and Jane go
out for coffee. Jane starts the conversation by
telling John that she isn't a friendly person.
John knows this very well, so he frankly
tells Jane the reason why. Jane is amazed at
how similar they view other people, that they
feel more superior to others. Jane asks John
what makes him feel superior to other people. John
wittingly replies that he can read minds, and this
prompts Jane to let him read hers. John begins to
tell her the truth about herself, her struggles,
and her thoughts about love. Jane denies this
at first but slowly starts falling for John.
John then sympathizes with how Jane's life has
been and tells her how he relates a lot to how
she feels. The two continue to enjoy conversing
with one another and eventually made out.
The agent is now in a hospital hallway when
Robertson appears to meet him. The agent gives
Robertson the piece of the bomb, to which he
realizes that the agent made an illegal jump.
Robertson, however, tolerates this saying that
agents without the regulations could save more
lives. The agent expresses his hesitation
about the next task, saying that Jane will
endure so much pain because of what he's about
to do. Robertson explains why the agent has to
accomplish his mission: to preserve the existence
of an agent created by a predestination paradox,
a person with no ancestry and history, like John.
Robertson reassures the agent that he's doing the
right thing and leaves. The nurse then exits the
ward, and the agent proceeds to take Jane's baby.
The agent takes the baby to his place
and prepares the baby for time travel.
The agent inputs the date, September 13,
1945, and carefully takes the baby with
him and travels. The agent changes his clothes
and takes the baby to the orphanage doorstep,
where it all started. The agent wishes the baby
well, calling her both of the names John and Jane.
The agent then phones the orphanage to notify them
of the baby at the doorstep, completing the cycle.
The agent returns to Cleveland, Ohio 1963, and
sees John and Jane at the bench from a distance.
John notices the agent, so he tells Jane to wait
for him and makes his way to the agent. Feeling
very deceived, John pulls out his gun towards the
agent. The agent understands his pain but still
tells him that everything was inevitable. John
tells the agent that he genuinely loves Jane,
which the agent acknowledges. The agent then
makes everything finally clear to John, who Jane
is supposed to become, who she is now, and who the
agent is. John is speechless after finally making
sense of everything, so the agent reassures
him that everything is proceeding correctly.
John looks at Jane one more time, not wanting to
leave her, but finally accepts what has to happen.
The agent takes John to the headquarters
and tells him that he will finally lead a
good life from there. John gets exhausted from
the jump, so the nurses take him for recovery.
The agent and Robertson speak outside. Robertson
explains that for John to become the person who
will prevent crimes, he had to endure his entire
life first. The agent still worries about the
fizzle bomber running amok. To this, Robertson
tells him that the fizzle bomber helped the
agency become stronger. The agent is surprised
at this remark. Robertson then hands him the
timer and new leads against the fizzle bomber.
Robertson then instructs the agent that after
he reaches his final destination, his field
kit will decommission as per regulation. The
agent acknowledges this, so Robertson pats
him, and the two bid each other farewell.
The agent leaves his recorded messages
behind beside John and leaves.
The agent then jumps to his final destination
in New York 1975, few months before the grand
explosion. The agent settles down, relaxing on a
chair, waiting for his kit to decommission. But
to his surprise, the kit fails to decommission.
The agent then checks the new lead Robertson left
him and finds out that Robertson still
wants him to find the fizzle bomber.
Meanwhile, the agent looks
for a typewriter and finds
it in an antique store. He buys the typewriter
and starts writing a novel. Upon finishing the
novel, the agent reveals himself to be John
all along, and the novel he wrote was about
his own entire life. Shortly after, John begins
connecting the dots and clues about the fizzle
bomber and comes to a horrible conclusion.
He then picks up his gun and makes his way.
At the Laundromat, John barges in with his gun
to find an older version of himself as the fizzle
bomber. John is heavily disappointed at what he
has become, but the bomber justifies that all
he did was prevent deaths by killing some. John
tells the bomber about the lives he destroyed. He
then angrily tells the bomber that he will never
become him. However, the bomber tells him that
it is inevitable for John to become the fizzle
bomber, for it was already predestined like their
entire lives. He further explains that if John
kills him, he will become the next bomber. The
bomber then finally tells him that the only way to
break the paradox is not to kill him but, instead,
love him again. But John, without hesitation,
shoots the bomber and kills him mercilessly.
Everything finally fits in place. The paradox will
continue to happen in a repeating cycle. The baby,
the young Jane, the adult John, the
unmarried mother, the mysterious lover,
and the agent were all the same
person born out of predestination.
And now, as the newly recruited agent John
turns to the next page of his predestined life,
so is the time for decommissioned John
to make his next predestined move.